# Assignment 1

## I. Domains 

### (chosen 3 are bold and italicized, the rest are bold only)

1. **Messy handwriting:** I usually have good handwriting, but sometimes imperfections happen that drive my inner perfectionist crazy.

2. ***Misplacing my belongings:*** *I frequently misplace my belongings. Since I live in a small room, I have to put away seasonal things after that season ends. Because I enjoy being organized, I made a notes file on my phone to track all my belongings. I also loan out a lot of my belongings to friends. So, it gets confusing very easily.*

3. ***Music:*** *Music plays a large role in my life—I’ve played piano and violin for nearly a decade each, and I also listen to a lot of music of many genres. I enjoy making playlists with special themes (such as happy, sad, angry, love songs, etc.). For my instruments, outside of orchestra and other ensemble activities, I do a lot of solo practicing. I also enjoy learning new pieces every once in awhile.*

4. **Co-working:** I’m most productive when working around other people, so I enjoy co-working with my friends.

5. ***Fashion:*** *I enjoy all aspects of fashion. I like buying new clothes and shoes when I feel like my closet is lacking in a certain type of item. I find picking my outfit (from clothes to accessories) in the morning to be a really fun part of my day. I also make it a goal of mine to have cool outfits for each specific type of occasion.*

6. **Self care:** I have a lot of goals for self care habits (drinking more water, getting good sleep, etc.) but I have trouble sticking to habits because I keep forgetting to.

7. **Organizing notes:** I have a lot of notes about various things, from schedules and to-do lists to random thoughts and inspirations. 

8. **Mahjong:** One of my favorite games of all time is mahjong. I enjoy both playing with friends and online against strangers or robots. 

9. **Journaling:** I want to get into journaling but have trouble staying consistent or coming up with good prompts and structure for my entries. 

10. **Doomscrolling:** As with most people of this generation, I waste way too much time doomscrolling on my phone.


## II. Problems

### (chosen 3 are bold and italicized, the rest are bold only)

1. **Misplacing belongings 1:** After each season ends, I put away the gear specific for that season (for example, winter jackets or summer sandals), but when the season comes around again, I often forget where I put those things. I didn't choose this problem because I don't have too many distinct seasonal belongings ( only have some jackets for winter, a couple pairs of shoes for summer, etc.), so it would be easy to keep track of these using a simple notes interface. I also think this is not a common problem, since most people (especially those who don't live in dorms) have specific storage spaces for off-season stuff. (This is an issue with indifference).

2. ***Misplacing belongings 2: a more creative belongings catalog:*** *Since I often lose track of my belongings, I started a notes file to track where I leave my belongings. However, with the accumulation of belongings, this list is getting increasingly complicated to look at. I chose this problem because a lot of people have issues with losing things, and a better way to keep track (than a simple notes file) could be a helpful motivator for them to address this issue.*

3. **Misplacing belongings 3:** I often loan out my belongings to my friends, but then I forget about them, and my friends are sometimes absent-minded so they forget as well. I didn't choose this problem because this can be resolved with better communication or a simple notes file, and if someone isn't willing to cooperate with keeping track, then an app wouldn't help. (This is an issue with antibodies).

4. ***Music 1: making special themed playlists:*** *When I try to pick out songs for my themed playlists, it's difficult because I have a lot of songs in my main playlist, and it takes time to assess whether each song fits in with the vibe I'm going for. I chose this problem because a lot of people like making special playlists for different moods, so this would be appealing to a wide variety of audiences. I also think the potential solutions to this problem could be creative and fun to both design and use.*

5. **Music 2**: Although I do enjoy solo practicing, it gets a bit hard to find motivation at times, especially without any feedback. I didn't choose this problem because solving this would require a lot of users to both require and give feedback, which isn't easily attainable. Also, a lot of people are able to take lessons or otherwise get feedback from people in their lives (as in, not people from the internet), so this may not get much use. (This is an issue with critical mass or indifference). 

6. **Music 3**: I enjoy learning new pieces once in awhile, but it's hard to find a piece that can satisfy all of my requirements: help me improve specific skills, fit my current skill set, and enjoyable to play. I didn't choose this problem because this would require too large of a database (since there are so many pieces out there), along with many other features such as assessing personal taste, defining skill levels, and categorizing skill sets of all pieces. (This is an issue with overambition).

7. **Fashion 1:** I like buying new clothes and shoes, but I often buy something just to later realize I already have one (or multiple) at home. I didn't choose this problem because the idea for solving this would just be cataloging all of one's clothing items, which is doable in a spreadsheet. (This is an issue with indifference or insufficient differentiation).

8. **Fashion 2:** I'm really indecisive when it comes to picking outfits, and will often spend a long time trying on various different things. I didn't choose this problem because there already exist virtual clothing try-on apps (such as FitRoom) or outfit suggestor apps (even an AI bot like DeepSeek could do this). (This is an issue with insufficient differentiation).

9. ***Fashion 3: outfits for all occasions:*** *I enjoy having cool and non-repetitive outfits for every occasion, ranging from social occasions to weather occasions, but sometimes an event comes up and I realize I don't have the proper items for it. I chose this problem because frantic last-minute shopping happens to a lot of people, and so there could be a large set of targeted audience.*

## III. Stakeholders

1. **A more creative belongings catalog**: ADHD/Bad Memory Users (people who struggle to find things/recall where they put things); Family Members (people who live with/frequently talk to the targeted users); Location Tracker Manufacturers (companies who make trackers such as AirTags that were meant to help people locate belongings). ADHD/Bad Memory Users would have an easier time with keeping track of their belongings, since a visualization or game is especially helpful for a lot of people. Family Members would also have an easier time since they would need to spend less effort helping the users find their belongings. Location Tracker Manufacturers could see a decline in use of their creations, since their problem would be solved by a method that doesn't require the purchase of physical devices such as AirTags. 

2. **Making special themed playlists**: Music Artists (people who create music); Music Listeners (people who listen to music); Streaming Services (services that provide easily accessible music). Impacts: Music Artists would gain more popularity if their songs are more easily included in playlists, but they may be upset if their songs are horribly misclassified (i.e. interpreted as a completely different mood). Music Listeners would find it more convenient to make playlists for various occasions, which would be beneficial for them. Streaming Services would potentially have higher user retention rate since being able to easily curate playlists to one's tastes would encourage users to keep using the app, but services that don't support the use of this idea would risk losing users to services that do.

3. **Outfits for all occasions**: Fashionistas (people who enjoy styling themselves); Personal Stylists (people who style others for a living); Clothing Retail Stores (stores that sell clothing). Impacts: Fashionistas would have an easier time with styling themselves and save time/money by not needing to last-minute shop. Personal Stylists may have an easier time if they can draw inspiration from this idea, but they may also get squeezed out of jobs because their tasks would be taken over by the idea. Clothing Retail Stores lose the opportunity to make more money off of selling things last-minute to people (for example, they could've raised last-minute prices but desperate buyers would've still purchased the goods).

## IV. Evidence

1. **A more creative belongings catalog:**
    1. ["Why Do I Constantly Lose All My Stuff?" (Vice)](https://www.vice.com/en/article/why-do-i-constantly-lose-all-my-stuff/): An article that states that losing stuff is a normal part of the human experience. It goes to show that this is a common problem that causes a lot of stress and frustration for many people, so an app to address it could be helpful.
    2. ["Enhancing user engagement: The role of gamification in mobile apps" (Science Direct)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0148296321002666): An article that explains how adding gameful/fun qualities to apps improves user engagement. It proves that my idea may be good for capturing user interest. 
    3. ["The Brain's Built-In GPS System" (Psychology today)](https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/best-practices-in-health/202506/the-brains-built-in-gps-system#:~:text=The%20hippocampus%20creates%20mental%20maps,cues%20to%20form%20spatial%20maps.): An article that shows that creating mental maps (i.e. a good visualization of a certain thing) can help with one's understanding and memory. 
    4. ["Why organization apps fail" (Reddit)](https://www.reddit.com/r/productivity/comments/xaiyyp/comment/inu49cu/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button): A singular response in a Reddit thread saying that sometimes organization apps fail because they're way too complicated and it's easier to use pen and paper. This could potentially be a roadblock for my idea.
    5. ["Why do 90% of people quit habit trackers within 30 days" (Moore Momentum Blog)](https://mooremomentum.com/blog/why-do-90-of-people-quit-habit-trackers-within-30-days/): A blog post furthering the idea that habit tracking (which is similar to my idea) apps are often too complicated and that "feature overload creates decision paralysis". This could be a consideration while implementing my idea. 
    6. ["Find my stuff: Home Inventory App" (Google Play Store)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.miquelcms.homeorganizer&hl=en_US&pli=1): A description of a pre-existing app for organizing home belongings. While this is more organized than a plaintext list in a notes app (since there are more detailed inputs allowed), it lacks the interactive visual aspect that seems to make my idea stand out.
    7. ["The Trap of Productivity Porn" (Medium)](https://medium.com/thinking-about-thinking/the-trap-of-productivity-porn-7173d1cc6f95): A blog post talking about how being too immersed in the idea of being productive and using a bunch of organizational tools (including apps) can actually be detrimental to overall productivity and organization. This is a potential consideration that could make users more averse (developing the antibodies issue) to the app if they believe in the ideas discussed in this blog post. 
    8. ["Here's How AirTags Work" (Travel + Leisure)](https://www.travelandleisure.com/how-do-airtags-work-7377946): An article about the convenience of AirTags for tracking belongings. This is another potential type of competition for my idea (although getting AirTags for everything would be expensive and impractical so it's not severe competition). 
    9. ["Overview of Data Visualization" (NIH)](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7303292/): An article about how it's important to have visualization of things to improve understanding. This supports the idea that an interactive (especially visual) log of belongings could be helpful to both engaging the user and enabling the user to find their objects more easily. 
    10. ["The Impact of Digital Educational Games on Student's Motivation for Learning"](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10783726/): An article about how learning games can be helpful to motivate students' learning. This can easily be applied to the concept of using a game-type environment to help a user's organization of their belongings. 

2. **Making special themed playlists:**
    1. ["Music Taste is Relative" (Medium)](https://medium.com/@jeffbim/music-taste-is-relative-exploring-the-subjectivity-of-musical-preferences-71eff5bf1c3f): An article stating that music taste is relative, which could prove that maybe this would be harder to implement than I think. However, since users can add their own tags, this may not be that severe of a problem. 
    2. ["The Power of Playlists" (Medium)](https://medium.com/illumination/the-power-of-playlists-1bf4318ab5ed): An article showing the importance and effectiveness of playlists towards building social connection, maintaining mental wellness, and so on. This proves that improving the convenience of making playlists can be explored since it's important to the human experience. 
    3. ["Guide to Create Good Own Playlists?" (Reddit)](https://www.reddit.com/r/spotify/comments/1eidpwx/guide_to_create_good_own_playlists/): A Reddit thread discussing ways to make good playlists, with lots of responses stating that they often revolve around a common theme such as a mood when making playlists. This demonstrates how the concept of making playlists specifically about certain themes is quite common. 
    4. ["That Spotify Daylist That Really ‘Gets’ You? It Was Written by A.I." (New York Times)](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/01/24/style/ai-spotify-music-playlist-algorithm.html): An article that takes a look at the Spotify daylists, which are AI-generated daily Spotify playlists with creative names, based on songs that the AI thinks the user would like. There seems to be a lot of criticism about the titles of the daylists being insulting or confusing. My personal experience with these daylists is that in addition to weird titles, they also sometimes have songs that completely don't fit the vibe of the title or my music taste. This shows that maybe my idea could make a difference and be original in some capacity. 
    5. ["AI Playlist Maker: Playlist AI" (App Store Preview)](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/ai-playlist-maker-playlistai/id1631703551): A pre-existing app for automatically creating playlists based on a user-inputted prompt. However, lots of reviews on this page state that the AI often picks songs that don't match the theme at all, which may prove that (at least in the current stage of AI development) AI won't fully satisfy user needs for themed playlist creation.
    6. ["(Counter)Productivity: The Case Against Productivity Apps" (Medium)](https://medium.com/@shannoncuthrell/counter-productivity-apps-b1cf7aaca7a8): A blog post making a case against productivity apps, stating that the apps do more harm than good by creating more distractions and hassle. The writer believes that one should be able to have executive function without an over-reliance on organization apps. This could be a counterpoint to my idea because one key component is logging closet inventory. 
    7. ["Spotify’s Transformative Impact on the Music Industry and Its Innovative Revenue Model" (Medium)](https://bytebridge.medium.com/spotifys-transformative-impact-on-the-music-industry-and-its-innovative-revenue-model-b11d6b5110fd): An article that highlights the extensive financial and social impact that Spotify has on the music community. This could be a potential challenge for my idea, since it's a strong source of competition. 
    8. ["Music Licensing: A General Overview (Sounds Like Corey)](https://soundslikecorey.com/music-licensing/): A blog post discussing the difficulties that music licensing (copyright that artists impose on their music) may present to an app that relies on streaming music. This could be a legal hurdle to overcome when developing my idea. 
    9. ["The Rise of the Skills-Based Curator" (Museums Journal)](https://www.museumsassociation.org/museums-journal/opinion/2022/08/the-rise-of-the-skills-based-curator/): An article describing the rising importance of the role of the curator (one who applies meaning to and gathers already-existing artistic content). This demonstrates that my idea--which is a type of curation, since it interprets songs and groups them by theme--could be valuable in the current world. 
    10. ["The Transformative Power of Music" (NIH)](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10765015/): An article showing the importance of music towards physical and mental health. This furthers the relevance and importance of my idea. 

3. **Outfits for all Occasions**
    1. ["Top Tips for Last Minute Holiday Shoppers" (Florida International University)](https://business.fiu.edu/news/2024/top-tips-for-last-minute-holiday-shoppers.html): An article about how last minute shopping can be stressful and difficult, including the fact that scams are more prominent during these times. This demonstrates that it may be easier to shop earlier, so that shoppers are not as desperate to be done quickly.
    2. ["The Best Wardrobe Apps" (INDYX)](https://www.myindyx.com/blog/the-best-wardrobe-apps): An article about the best apps to keep track of wardrobes. This shows that keeping track of one's closet is a need that a lot of users have, and so my idea (which is an extension of this) could also be useful. 
    3. ["Wardrobe Management Apps and Their Unintended Benefits for Fashion Sustainability and Well-Being: Insights from User Reviews"](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/391446595_Wardrobe_Management_Apps_and_Their_Unintended_Benefits_for_Fashion_Sustainability_and_Well-Being_Insights_from_User_Reviews): An article supporting that fashion-tracking type apps are good for sustainability. This shows that my idea could be good not just for users themselves but also for the overall sustainability and wellbeing of the environment and world. 
    4. ["Special Occasion Shopping" (Corporette)](https://corporette.com/special-occasion-shopping/): A blog post describing ways to counter stress about special occasion shopping. This demonstrates that needing clothes for last-minute events is an issue for a lot of people, and so my idea could solve problems in a lot of ways. However, some of the ideas in this post do seem useful, which makes me worry that my issue could be already solved for a lot of people. 
    5. ["The hidden costs of free apps" (Linkoping University)](https://liu.se/en/news-item/gratisapparnas-dolda-kostnader-mer-an-personliga-data): An article describing the various issues associated with mobile apps in general, even if they seem free. Part of the title states that sometimes there can be privacy breaches, where user data is unwillingly leaked. It could be bad if one's closet information is leaked--if there are valuable pieces, thieves may feel like targeting the household, and knowing one's closet could also help people identify and stalk them on the street. 
    6. ["Smart Closet Technology Trends 2025" (xLook)](https://xlook.app/blog/smart-closet-technology-trends-2025/): A blog post discussing the different smart closet apps and trends that are helpful for users in 2025. This demonstrates that my idea can be beneficial since this developing area is useful for many users in the present-day. 
    7. ["An Honest Review of the Stylebook App" (Apartment Therapy)](https://www.apartmenttherapy.com/an-honest-review-of-the-clueless-closet-like-stylebook-app-249071): A blog post reviewing the Stylebook app, which is an already-existing closet management app. The app has a lot of features similar to my idea, such as cataloging clothes and tracking how often they're worn to understand the user's style. It does lack parts of my idea, such as incorporating future events into consideration, so my idea has some uniqueness to it. One concerning point is that the reviewer said that Stylebook was complicated at times, which could be a deterrent for my idea as well. 
    8. ["Rethinking Clothing Consumption" (UNC)](https://universitypolicy.unc.edu/news/2024/04/26/rethinking-clothing-consumption-understanding-the-human-cost-of-fast-fashion/): An article discussing the problems with overconsumption nowadays, caused by fast fashion trends. Overconsumption is a dangerous trend that is harmful towards both the environment and economy. By using my idea, users can optimize their purchasing habits by only buying things they need for occasions that will happen, and this could counter overconsumption. 
    9. ["Are Your Smart Clothes Spying On You?" (SpyScape)](https://spyscape.com/article/data-wise-dressing-are-your-smart-clothes-spying-on-you): An article talking about the privacy violations and dangers of smart clothing. Although my idea doesn't involve smart clothing, having an app that knows so much about someone's clothing habits and closet items could be potentially dangerous. This is a consideration I must make when I pursue this idea. 
    10. ["The Age of Algorithmic Anxiety (The New Yorker)](https://www.newyorker.com/culture/infinite-scroll/the-age-of-algorithmic-anxiety): An article describing how current reliance on the internet "algorithm", which includes outfit and purchase suggestions, could instill anxiety in people by making them constantly feel judged if they don't follow certain things. This could be a problem created by my idea, and I must consider ways to avoid furthering this type of pressure. 

## V. Features

1. **A more creative belongings catalog feature 1:** 

    **Customizable interactive map of user's living space:** users can create an interactive map of their living space and add their belongings (with pictures or icons) to create a visual understanding of where their things are. This will make it easier to recall where things are, as the visual component makes it less complicated than a list in a notes app.

2. **A more creative belongings catalog feature 1:** 

    **Making a game out of organization:** for each item logged, users gain XP which can go towards leveling up. The act of organizing is paired with either a world-building game or taking care of a pet; there should also be activities that users can do in the game while not logging belongings, in order to make the game more interesting, but they must log belongings to level up and unlock more perks. 

3. **A more creative belongings catalog feature 1:**

    **Social media for belongings:** users can create a social media profile for each of their belongings (especially the most important ones or the ones they lose the most often). The bio of the profile will say where the object is meant to be stored, and the user can post and take pictures when they move the object elsewhere (and they can tag the profiles of the other objects nearby). This creates a fun way for the user to document their belongings. 

4. **Making special themed playlists feature 1:**

    **Users get to create theme tags:** as they listen to music, users have the option to add tags to the songs they listen to (for example, mood or theme of the song). Then they can extract all songs that have a certain tag when they wish to create themed playlists. 

5. **Making special themed playlists feature 2:**

    **Music tagging social media:** users get to make their own themed playlists public (for example, a sad breakup songs compilation), and other users get to use an upvote/downvote system to rate how well specific songs belong in the playlist. Then, when a user wants to make a specific playlist, they can search up specific mood tags and find high-rated song choices in playlists that have songs fitting this mood.

6. **Making special themed playlists feature 3:**

    **Music dating app:** users can select the theme or mood of the song that they want (ranging from genre, era, mood, and energy to other keywords they can self-input), and the app will suggest a bunch of songs (both from the user's playlist and from the general Spotify database) that may fit the user's selections. Then, the user can swipe left (reject) or swipe right (accept) songs according to their choosing. The app can also take the left and right swipes as negative and positive feedback for future self-improvement. 

7. **Outfits for all occasions feature 1:** 

    **Integrated calendar and weather into closet catalog:** each user inputs upcoming social or weather events (by linking their calendar and filling out their general location) so that the app can help prompt the user to prepare for these occasions. The app will look at the info and go down the list of the user's clothing items to determine if there are items that the user could potentially need. 

8. **Outfits for all occasions feature 2:**

    **Generating advice for users to maintain their closet:** the app will frequently send users suggestions for how to maintain their wardrobe so that it's not excessively large, but they can have enough outfits for all occasions. The app can draw data from both the internet (frequently needed pieces) and the user's history on the app. The user also will have a chance to input the types of events they frequently go to, in order to provide further data to the app. 

9. **Outfits for all occasions feature 3:**

    **Clothes swapping:** The app will create miniature "community closets" (where only verified users who agree to certain privacy and safety terms can contribute), and the users (who must all be geographically close to each other) input a catalog of their closet, labeling each item with potential occasions it could be used for, along with a picture and sizing details. Then, when another user needs specific clothes for an occasion, they can search through the "community closet" and loan pieces instead of needing to buy them. 